So let's talk about what you can export in this video you will understand what will export.
Realize some elements of your models will not export or will once or not properly at all.
It does depend on the target package that you're exporting to.
So what will appear on import.
Well often you will have no problem with meche data including the U.S. maps armatures and animation
data will appear to support it in the target package.
So for instance if you were moving a mesh in the animated lamp that we've done into something like unity
or unreel you'll find the animation is there.
If you're trying to import that into something like Sketchup which doesn't support that type of animation
then it just wouldn't be there.
Now textures may appear that once this is one of these odd ones or the simple diff based the fused texture
that comes when you make your model but often that will appear there once and then not update anymore.
So what we have to do in a lot of cases is if we're working in another application is a lot of reconstruction
so texture's often have to be reapplied whether they're in normal mapper or a diffused map and will
go over those types of map in much more detail shortly.
Shaders how it actually renders the image work differently in other packages.
And what that basically means is any of your materials would have to be remade.
So we've got our texture's on one level whether they're a bump map showing as artificial surface detail
or whether they're a diffuse map which show is the base colour of a material the materials themselves
will often have to be reconstructed.
So that means if we're working primarily in another package and we use using blender to model with then
you shouldn't be focussing too heavily on materials within blender you need to focus on materials within
the target package particle systems are local to Blender.
So if you've made something with hair and try and export it the hair won't be there.
You can solidify the hair.
Sure you can make it a mesh object and then it will come across.
But that might put your polygon count through the roof.
Of course one of the best things you can do is test.
So if you want to move from one package to the other.
Just test what you want to do.
Be very lean about to just make a hairy cube and see if that opens up in an external package.
If it doesn't ask yourself why is that.
And then you drift back and you go well is this a particle system or you've made the cube look like
glass.
So it's a glass paperweight on a desk for instance and then you test it and it just comes across as
a cube.
Well then you need to set up the material in the target package so we don't want to do is waste time.
In blender if youre moving your models straight over to an external package of course that's not what
were going to be focussed on entirely here because it is a course on blender.
So we'll be focussed on actually all of these things within blender and how to get them out as well.
If you want to use them there.
So a quick challenge for you here.
Where's your models end points.
So where is the model you were making going to end up.
Is it going to end up in a game engine.
Is it going to end up in a completely different package.
Are you moving between the two.
We need to make these decisions now before we start moving ahead and are wasting time in one package
when we should be putting up that effort.
For instance materials in another what do you need to do in blender vs. the external package was the
video now and give that some thought.
Guys welcome back.
Now I'm going to go through my challenge answer.
Well I'm going to remain in blender for the entire project.
So I of course is a course focussed on blender so I'm going to be doing that.
And so the materials will be fleshed out in blender.
Textures will be made in blender but kept unpacked.
So before we've had them packed into the blend file I think I've still got it.
Default sets being packed so I'm going to have to sort out when I looked at my data block it did show
me that they were packed so I need to change that and then I can use any textures I create across multiple
models because they are not going to be stored in the blend file they're going to be stored on a folder
probably at Textus folder on the actual computer itself which is incredibly useful.
Now I just need to bear in mind that if I do move my models out and I will do throughout this section
to make sure that they're working externally that things that I've had to make a particle system I just
need to be aware that that isn't going to come across.
The lighting in the scene that's not going to come across etc etc..
There's lots of things that potentially I could do that have no impact in an external file so that may
aid.
Glenda.
Well it's not going to aid anything else moving out so I'll just bear that in mind and wherever possible
limits things like the particle systems and special lighting effects etc..
How did you guys get on.
Are you working in multiple packages at the moment.
Please share how your working what packages you're working in are you moving between two 3D modelling
packages like sketch up through the s Max and blender.
Perhaps you use one for one thing and one for another.
I know a lot of people out there use Z brush for sculpting and then hop back into blender for rendering
etc..
Or are you working with the game engine.
Please share in the discussions and I will see you guys in the next lecture.